content/articles/web-develop-pt2-content-markdown.md, before:

Title: Web development using Pelican and Travis-CI - Part 2: Writing content using Markdown
Date: 2020-03-17 00:00
Modified: 2020-03-17 00:00
Category: Web development and hosting
Slug: web-develop-pt2-content-markdown
Summary: In this article, you will learn how to write your articles or blogs using Markdown.
Tags: pelican, python, pelican-plugin, pneumatic
Authors: Ayush Kumar Shah
Status: draft

Now that you have setup your website, the next step is to start writing some content -- articles, blogs, about page,
contact page, etc. We will use Markdown for writing any content you create. If you have not heard about Markdown, don't
worry as I will guide you with examples.

## Create directories and files

First, let us create required directories for articles and pages.

```console
(.venv) $ mkdir content/articles
(.venv) $ mkdir content/pages
```

Now, let's create a file for your first article inside the articles directory.

```console
(.venv) $ touch content/articles/first_article.md
```

Also, create files for about, contact and 404 errror page.

```console
(.venv) $ touch content/pages/about.md content/pages/contact.md content/pages/404.md
```

At this point, your project structure should look like:

    web_development
            ├── content
                ├── articles
                    └── first_article.md
                ├── pages
                    ├── 404.md
                    ├── about.md
                    └── contact.md
            ├── fabfile.py
            ├── output
                ├── ... (many html files)
            ├── themes
                ├── Flex/
            ├── pelican-plugins
                ├── ... (various plugin directories)
            ├── pelicanconf.py
            ├──publishconf.py
            └──requirements.txt

## Start Writing Articles

### Define metadata for article

Before writing the actual content, we need to define the metadata for the article. Metadata carries important information about
your article. Open the file **first_article.md** and add the following metadata lines:

    Title: My First Article
    Date: 2020-03-17 00:00
    Modified: 2020-03-17 00:00
    Category: Blog
    Slug: first-article
    Summary: In this article, I have written my first article using Markdown.
    Tags: pelican, markdown
    Authors: Ayush Kumar Shah
    Status: published

These keywords are pretty much self explanatory. I will just explain the new ones.

- Slug defines the name of the html file to be generated.

- Status: Choose one of draft, published or hidden.

    - draft: In this mode, the article is not shown in the main page but can be viewed by visiting
  [localhost:8000/drafts/first-article](localhost:8000/drafts/first-article) after serving the site (i.e. running thisfab reserve). It is used to show to your friends while
  writing before publishing during the developing stage.

    - published: In this mode, the article is shown in the main page after serving the site.
  [localhost:8000/2020/03/first-article](localhost:8000/2020/03/first-article).

    - hidden: In this mode, the article is just not shown in the website.

### Write article content

Now add the following lines in the file first_article.md just below the metadata defined above.

    This is an example from [https://markdown-it.github.io/](https://markdown-it.github.io/)

    ---

    # h1 Heading
    ## h2 Heading
    ### h3 Heading
    #### h4 Heading
    ##### h5 Heading
    ###### h6 Heading


    ## Horizontal Rules

    ___

    ---

    ***


    ## Emphasis

    **This is bold text**

    __This is bold text__

    *This is italic text*

    _This is italic text_

    ~~Strikethrough~~

    ## Blockquotes

    > Blockquotes can also be nested...
    >> ...by using additional greater-than signs right next to each other...
    > > > ...or with spaces between arrows.

    ## Lists

    Unordered

    + Create a list by starting a line with `+`, `-`, or `*`
    + Sub-lists are made by indenting 2 spaces:
    - Marker character change forces new list start:
        * Ac tristique libero volutpat at
        + Facilisis in pretium nisl aliquet
        - Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    + Very easy!

    Ordered

    1. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
    2. Consectetur adipiscing elit
    3. Integer molestie lorem at massa

    ## Code

    Inline `code`

    Indented code

        // Some comments
        line 1 of code
        line 2 of code
        line 3 of code


    Block code "fences"

    ```
    Sample text here...
    ```

    Syntax highlighting

    ``` python
    numbers = [9, 8, 4, 1, 5]
    for i, number in enumerate(numbers):
        print (i, number)
    message = "Hello World"
    hello(message)

    def hello(message):
        print (message)
    ```

    ## Tables

    | Option | Description |
    | ------ | ----------- |
    | data   | path to data files to supply the data that will be passed into templates. |
    | engine | engine to be used for processing templates. Handlebars is the default. |
    | ext    | extension to be used for dest files. |

    Right aligned columns

    | Option | Description |
    | ------:| -----------:|
    | data   | path to data files to supply the data that will be passed into templates. |
    | engine | engine to be used for processing templates. Handlebars is the default. |
    | ext    | extension to be used for dest files. |

    ## Links

    [link text](http://dev.nodeca.com)

    [link with title](http://nodeca.github.io/pica/demo/ "title text!")

    ## Images

    ![Minion](https://octodex.github.com/images/minion.png)
    ![Stormtroopocat](https://octodex.github.com/images/stormtroopocat.jpg "The Stormtroopocat")

You can view the complete [Markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) for
reference.

Now, let's view how your article looks in the website.

Close the previous process  i.e. **fab reserve** if it is still
running by pressing Ctrl+C or Cmd+C. Then,

```console
(.venv) $ fab reserve
```

Open your browser and visit
[localhost:8000](localhost:8000)

[![First Article](/images/first_article.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/px31tnG)

[![First Article 2](/images/first_article2.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/b6mDjN9)

**Congratulations**, your first article has been published in your website.
It was as simple as that. Compare the article output in the website as shown in the image above and the
markdown code to understand how the code works.

## Start Writing Pages

Now, let's create our pages. Pages are more permanent and doesn't require the detailed metadata like the articles. Example: an about me
page. We have added the links to the pages in the navigation bar.

### About page

Open **about.md** and add the following metadata lines like you did before. As you can see the difference as it is not
as detailed as before.

    Title: About
    Date: 2020-03-18 08:00
    Modified: 2020-03-18 08:00

Write the content for your about page using Markdown in the way you want to design the
page. I have provided a simple example for my about page below.

    Hello! I’m Ayush Kumar Shah. To talk about myself, I love football (Cristiano Ronaldo is my idol), travelling and photography. I have a great interest in Artificial Intelligence and am pursuing my career in same. 

    I am a Machine Learning Engineer at [Fusemachines](https://www.fusemachines.com) working with global client teams to build state-of-the-art products. I have worked in the domains of Recommendation System, Nepali Handwritten character recognition and waste classification during my time at Fusemachines.

    My inquisitive nature, craving for knowledge, and longing for novelty and innovation strengthen my passion to work and learn daily to increase my knowledge horizon.

    I am mostly into tech and so, my blog will be a reflection of whatever new thing I learn about tech.

    Thank you for visiting my blog.

[![About](/images/about.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/)

### Contact page

You can configure your **contact.md** file in the similar way. Have a look at a simple example below and create a
similar one.

    Title: Contact
    Date: 2020-03-18 03:27
    Modified: 2020-03-18 03:27
    Slug: contact

    If you have any questions or want to discuss something, please feel free to contact me at
    [ayush.kumar.shah@gmail.com](mailto:aysh.kumar.shah@gmail.com)
    [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ayushkumarshah7)
    [Linkedin](https://np.linkedin.com/in/ayush7).

    Likewise, If you want to inform about any type of errors in my blogs, you can open an issue [here](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/ayushkumarshah.github.io/issues/new).

[![Contact](/images/contact.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/)

Finally, let's define a page for error as well. Open **404.md** and add the following lines

    Title: Not Found
    Status: hidden
    Save_as: 404.html

    Sorry, that page doesn't seem to exist. Please double-check the address or
    head to the [home page][1].

    [1]: {index}

Finally, your site is ready.

However, your site is not publicly available. Learn how to host your site in github pages or a custom domain in [part
3](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt3-github-pages) of the article.

- [Part 1: Setting up Pelican - Installation and Theme](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)
- [<span style="color:green">Part 2: Writing content using Markdown</span>](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt2-content-markdown)
- [**Part 3: Hosting your website to GitHub Pages and custom domain**](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt3-github-pages)
- [Part 4: Setting up Travis-CI for continuous integration of Builds](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)
- [Part 5: Linking Disqus comments to your website](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)
- [Part 6: Using Google Analytics with Pelican](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)

Or, goto the [home-page of the article.](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pelican-travis-intro)

Commit message:

Complete article: part 3 first draft

content/articles/web-develop-pt2-content-markdown.md, after:

Title: Web development using Pelican and Travis-CI - Part 2: Writing content using Markdown
Date: 2020-03-24 08:00
Modified: 2020-03-28 22:25
Category: Web development and hosting
Slug: web-develop-pt2-content-markdown
Summary: In this article, you will learn how to write your articles or blogs using Markdown.
Tags: pelican, markdown, python
Authors: Ayush Kumar Shah
Status: draft

This article is a part of a series of articles for web development using pelican. So, if you haven't read the previous
articles, please check it out by clicking the links below.

[Building and deploying static websites using Pelican and
Travis-CI](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pelican-travis-intro)

- [Part 1: Setting up Pelican - Installation and Theme](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)

Now that you have setup your website, the next step is to start writing some content -- articles, blogs, about page,
contact page, etc. We will use Markdown for writing any content you create. If you have not heard about Markdown, don't
worry as I will guide you with examples.

## Create directories and files

First, let us create required directories for articles and pages.

```console
(.venv) $ mkdir content/articles
(.venv) $ mkdir content/pages
```

Now, let's create a file for your first article inside the articles directory.

```console
(.venv) $ touch content/articles/first_article.md
```

Also, create files for about, contact and 404 errror page.

```console
(.venv) $ touch content/pages/about.md content/pages/contact.md content/pages/404.md
```

At this point, your project structure should look like:

    web_development
            ├── content
                ├── articles
                    └── first_article.md
                ├── pages
                    ├── 404.md
                    ├── about.md
                    └── contact.md
            ├── fabfile.py
            ├── output
                ├── ... (many html files)
            ├── themes
                ├── Flex/
            ├── pelican-plugins
                ├── ... (various plugin directories)
            ├── pelicanconf.py
            ├──publishconf.py
            └──requirements.txt

## Start Writing Articles

### Define metadata for article

Before writing the actual content, we need to define the metadata for the article. Metadata carries important information about
your article. Open the file **first_article.md** and add the following metadata lines:

    Title: My First Article
    Date: 2020-03-17 00:00
    Modified: 2020-03-17 00:00
    Category: Blog
    Slug: first-article
    Summary: In this article, I have written my first article using Markdown.
    Tags: pelican, markdown
    Authors: Ayush Kumar Shah
    Status: published

These keywords are pretty much self explanatory. I will just explain the new ones.

- Slug defines the name of the html file to be generated.

- Status: Choose one of draft, published or hidden.

    - draft: In this mode, the article is not shown in the main page but can be viewed by visiting
  [localhost:8000/drafts/first-article](localhost:8000/drafts/first-article) after serving the site (i.e. running thisfab reserve). It is used to show to your friends while
  writing before publishing during the developing stage.

    - published: In this mode, the article is shown in the main page after serving the site.
  [localhost:8000/2020/03/first-article](localhost:8000/2020/03/first-article).

    - hidden: In this mode, the article is just not shown in the website.

### Write article content

Now add the following lines in the file first_article.md just below the metadata defined above.

    This is an example from [https://markdown-it.github.io/](https://markdown-it.github.io/)

    ---

    # h1 Heading
    ## h2 Heading
    ### h3 Heading
    #### h4 Heading
    ##### h5 Heading
    ###### h6 Heading


    ## Horizontal Rules

    ___

    ---

    ***


    ## Emphasis

    **This is bold text**

    __This is bold text__

    *This is italic text*

    _This is italic text_

    ~~Strikethrough~~

    ## Blockquotes

    > Blockquotes can also be nested...
    >> ...by using additional greater-than signs right next to each other...
    > > > ...or with spaces between arrows.

    ## Lists

    Unordered

    + Create a list by starting a line with `+`, `-`, or `*`
    + Sub-lists are made by indenting 2 spaces:
    - Marker character change forces new list start:
        * Ac tristique libero volutpat at
        + Facilisis in pretium nisl aliquet
        - Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    + Very easy!

    Ordered

    1. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
    2. Consectetur adipiscing elit
    3. Integer molestie lorem at massa

    ## Code

    Inline `code`

    Indented code

        // Some comments
        line 1 of code
        line 2 of code
        line 3 of code


    Block code "fences"

    ```
    Sample text here...
    ```

    Syntax highlighting

    ``` python
    numbers = [9, 8, 4, 1, 5]
    for i, number in enumerate(numbers):
        print (i, number)
    message = "Hello World"
    hello(message)

    def hello(message):
        print (message)
    ```

    ## Tables

    | Option | Description |
    | ------ | ----------- |
    | data   | path to data files to supply the data that will be passed into templates. |
    | engine | engine to be used for processing templates. Handlebars is the default. |
    | ext    | extension to be used for dest files. |

    Right aligned columns

    | Option | Description |
    | ------:| -----------:|
    | data   | path to data files to supply the data that will be passed into templates. |
    | engine | engine to be used for processing templates. Handlebars is the default. |
    | ext    | extension to be used for dest files. |

    ## Links

    [link text](http://dev.nodeca.com)

    [link with title](http://nodeca.github.io/pica/demo/ "title text!")

    ## Images

    ![Minion](https://octodex.github.com/images/minion.png)
    ![Stormtroopocat](https://octodex.github.com/images/stormtroopocat.jpg "The Stormtroopocat")

You can view the complete [Markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) for
reference.

Now, let's view how your article looks in the website.

Close the previous process  i.e. **fab reserve** if it is still
running by pressing Ctrl+C or Cmd+C. Then,

```console
(.venv) $ fab reserve
```

Open your browser and visit
[localhost:8000](localhost:8000)

[![First Article](/images/first_article.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/px31tnG)

[![First Article 2](/images/first_article2.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/b6mDjN9)

**Congratulations**, your first article has been published in your website.
It was as simple as that. Compare the article output in the website as shown in the image above and the
markdown code to understand how the code works.

## Start Writing Pages

Now, let's create our pages. Pages are more permanent and doesn't require the detailed metadata like the articles. Example: an about me
page. We have added the links to the pages in the navigation bar.

### About page

Open **about.md** and add the following metadata lines like you did before. As you can see the difference as it is not
as detailed as before.

    Title: About
    Date: 2020-03-18 08:00
    Modified: 2020-03-18 08:00

Write the content for your about page using Markdown in the way you want to design the
page. I have provided a simple example for my about page below.

    Hello! I’m Ayush Kumar Shah. To talk about myself, I love football (Cristiano Ronaldo is my idol), travelling and photography. I have a great interest in Artificial Intelligence and am pursuing my career in same. 

    I am a Machine Learning Engineer at [Fusemachines](https://www.fusemachines.com) working with global client teams to build state-of-the-art products. I have worked in the domains of Recommendation System, Nepali Handwritten character recognition and waste classification during my time at Fusemachines.

    My inquisitive nature, craving for knowledge, and longing for novelty and innovation strengthen my passion to work and learn daily to increase my knowledge horizon.

    I am mostly into tech and so, my blog will be a reflection of whatever new thing I learn about tech.

    Thank you for visiting my blog.

[![About](/images/about.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/)

### Contact page

You can configure your **contact.md** file in the similar way. Have a look at a simple example below and create a
similar one.

    Title: Contact
    Date: 2020-03-18 03:27
    Modified: 2020-03-18 03:27
    Slug: contact

    If you have any questions or want to discuss something, please feel free to contact me at
    [ayush.kumar.shah@gmail.com](mailto:aysh.kumar.shah@gmail.com)
    [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ayushkumarshah7)
    [Linkedin](https://np.linkedin.com/in/ayush7).

    Likewise, If you want to inform about any type of errors in my blogs, you can open an issue [here](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/ayushkumarshah.github.io/issues/new).

[![Contact](/images/contact.png){.img-center}](https://ibb.co/)

Finally, let's define a page for error as well. Open **404.md** and add the following lines

    Title: Not Found
    Status: hidden
    Save_as: 404.html

    Sorry, that page doesn't seem to exist. Please double-check the address or
    head to the [home page][1].

    [1]: {index}

Finally, your site is ready. You may now add more articles by creating more .md files into the **content/articles/**
directory and follow the similar steps.

Although your site has been built, it is not publicly available. Learn how to host your site in github pages or a custom domain in [part
3](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt3-github-pages) of the article.

- [Part 1: Setting up Pelican - Installation and Theme](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)
- [<span style="color:green">Part 2: Writing content using Markdown</span>](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt2-content-markdown)
- [**Part 3: Hosting your website to GitHub Pages and custom domain**](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt3-github-pages)
- [Part 4: Setting up Travis-CI for automating deployment](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt4-travis-pelican)
- [Part 5: Linking Disqus comments to your website](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)
- [Part 6: Using Google Analytics with Pelican](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pt1-pelican-setup)

Or, goto the [home-page of the article.](https://shahayush.com/drafts/web-develop-pelican-travis-intro)
