_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

<!--
# Ayush Kumar Shah
 -->

<!--
Graduate Research Assisstant, <br>
[Rochester Institute of Technology](https://www.rit.edu), New York
 -->

I am a 3rd year Computer Science Ph.D. student at Rochester Institute of
Technology (RIT), conducting research under [Prof. Richard Zanibbi](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~rlaz/)
at the [Document and Pattern Recognition Lab (DPRL), RIT](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/index.html).
Currently, I am involved in the [MathSeer project](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/mathseer/),
which is a system to make finding mathematical information easier by creating innovative search
engines, interfaces, and algorithms for extracting and recognizing visual
structure like mathematical formulas and chemical diagrams in documents.

**Research Interests**: Pattern recognition, computer vision, detection and recognition of graphical structures, deep
learning, natural language processing

---

Get a PDF copy of my CV [here](/files/CV_AyushKumarShah_current.pdf)

---

## News

- (Apr 17, 2023): Gave a **Research Idea Ring (RIR) talk** on “Line-of-sight with Graph Attention Parser 
    (LGAP) for Math Formulas” at RIT.

- (Sept 27-28, 2022): Co-presented a poster on "Reconstructing the Structure of Molecular Diagrams in PDF Documents 
using a CNN-Attention-Based Parsing Model" at the **Molecule Maker Lab Institute (MMLI) All-Institute Retreat at
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC)**.

- (Sep 5, 2021): Gave a guest lecture on “Bayesian Decision Theory” for RIT’s undergraduate course - 
    Intro to Machine Learning (40 students).

- (Aug 28, 2022): Successfully completed **Applied Scientist Intern** at Amazon (Alexa AI). Started as
**Graduate Teaching Assisstant (GTA)** for the undergraduate course CSCI-335 Machine Learning.

- (May 23, 2022): Started as **Applied Scientist Intern** at Amazon (Alexa AI). 
   Worked on the Alexa Perceptual Technologies - Speaker Understanding team
   to improve speaker identification in Alexa devices.
 
- (Apr 7, 2022): Gave a **Research Idea Ring (RIR) talk** on “A Fast and Interpretable 
    Context-aware Parser for Isolated Formulas and Chemical Diagrams” at RIT.

- (Sep 9, 2021): Gave a poster presentation talk on the 
    MathSeer extraction pipeline at the 16th International Conference
    on Document Analysis and Recognition [ICDAR 2021](https://icdar2021.org/), 
    Lausanne, Switzerland virtually.
 
- (Sep 2021): MathSeer extraction pipeline released. This tool extracts formula
  locations and content in PDF documents. The pipeline is available from
  [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/dprl/MathSeer-extraction-pipeline), and includes 
  improved versions of SymbolScraper, ScanSSD (now,
  ScanSSD-XYc), and QD-GGA. The pipeline was prepared by **Ayush K. Shah**,
  Abhisek Dey, Matt Langsenkamp, and Prof. Zanibbi.

- (Apr 2021): Our [paper](https://shahayush.com/publication/2021-09-01-mathseer-pipeline) 
    on the MathSeer formula extraction and evaluation pipeline accepted for publication at
    ICDAR 2021.

- (May 2021): Successfully defended and passed my Ph.D. Research Potential Assessment (RPA).

- (Aug 2020): Joined Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) for Ph.D. in Computing and Information Sciences.
    Started as **Graduate Research Assisstant (GRA)**  at the [Document and
    Pattern Recognition Lab (DPRL)](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/) under [Prof.
    Richard Zanibbi](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~rlaz/).

- (Jan 2020): Promoted to Machine Learning Engineer Level 1 at Fusemachines
    Nepal.

- (Aug 2019): Promoted to Machine Learning Engineer Associate at Fusemachines
    Nepal.

- (Aug 2019): Graduated from Kathmandu University as a Computer Engineer.

- (Jun 2019): Started working as a Machine Learning Engineer Trainee at
    Fusemachines Nepal.

## Education

---

### PhD, Computing and Information Sciences

2020-Present

Rochester Institute of Technology, <br> 
Rochester, New York

---

### BE, Computer Engineering

2015-2019

Kathmandu University, <br> 
Dhulikhel, Nepal

CGPA: 3.96 / 4.0

**Coursework:** Machine Learning; Artificial Intelligence; Natural Language Processing; Data Structure and Algorithms;
Database Management Systems; Operating Systems; Advanced Calculus and Linear Algebra; C; C++; Computer Architecture;
Software Engineering; Digital Signal Processing; Embedded Systems

---

## Work Experience

---
### Applied Scientist Intern

May 23, 2022 - Aug 26, 2022

Amazon - Alexa AI <br>
Sunnyvale, California
 
Reduced annotation costs and training time, with competitive speaker
identification results in voice assistants (e.g., Alexa) using semi-supervised
techniques (Alexa Speaker Understanding team).

### Graduate Research Assisstant

Aug 18, 2020 - Present 

Rochester Institute of Technology, <br> 
Rochester, New York

One of the members of the [MathSeer Project,](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/mathseer/) which 
is a system to make finding mathematical information easier. 
I am conducting research under Prof. Richard Zanibbi to create innovative search
engines, interfaces, and algorithms for extracting and recognizing math.

---

### Machine Learning Engineer

June 17, 2019 - Aug 31, 2020

Fusemachines Nepal, <br> 
Aarya Tower Bhawan, Hattisar, Nepal

- Worked on the ML pipeline: data cleaning and pre-processing, model building, tuning hyperparameters, model
training, and model evaluation in NLP and Computer Vision domain.

- Developed a product classifier using chemical attributes to optimize business decisions for products that go unsold
using boosting algorithms including Gradient Boosting, Random Forests, XGBoost, LightGBM.

- Built an intelligent character recognition system using CNN and RNN to predict handwritten texts (both English
and Nepali) in manually-filled form fields with an accuracy of 95%. 

- Analysed data provided by a subscription-based e-commerce client for building a recommendation system, which
led to an increase in revenue through cross-selling by 6% (large as we were serving 600k users).

- Designed, reviewed, and refined reading materials, quizzes, assignments, and projects for [Fusemachines AI Education Programs](https://fusemachines.com/ai-education/for-engineers/) - “Foundations in AI: Mathematics for AI” (linear algebra, calculus, probability and statistics,
etc.), “Micro Degree™ in Artificial Intelligence: Machine Learning, Computer Vision” (regresssion, image processing, feature detection, image classification, object recognition, etc.)

---

### Computer Science Instructor

Jan 2020 - June 2020

Samriddhi College, <br> 
Kathmandu, Nepal

Designed and implemented daily lesson plans and coding sessions for the course [“Foundations in AI: Computer
Science and Mathematics”](https://fusemachines.com/ai-education/for-engineers/) to undergraduate BSc.CSIT students. 
The course topics include: Introduction to AI,
Fundamentals of CS, Python Programming, Data Structure, Database Management System.

---

## Technical Experience

---

### Projects

- [Nepali Plagiarism Detector (NLP)](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/Nepali_Plagiarism_Detection)<br>
An application that detects plagiarised Devanagari text files using a self-built rule-based stemming algorithm and
Cosine similarity

- [Guitar chord recognizer](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/Guitar-Chords-recognition)<br>
An application that predicts the chords when the Mel spectrograms of guitar sound are fed into a CNN.

- [AI Plays GTA 5: Simulating self-driving vehicles](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/AI-Plays-GTA5)<br>
A bike-riding agent in a virtual environment (GTA5), built using CNN, used for simulating self-driving vehicles.
 
- [Sarangi: Nepali lyrics emotions extraction (NLP)](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/sarangi)<br>
A framework that categorizes songs written in the Devanagari script into four emotions using Naive Bayes.

- [Autocar](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/autocar/)<br>
  A self-driving car that can detect lanes, stop sign, traffic light and avoid a collision, built using Canny edge
detection, Hough transform, Haar cascade classifier, and Arduino programming.
 
- [MathMate – advanced mathematical calculator](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/MathMate)<br>
An android app that solves different types of mathematical equations, numerical computations, and calculus
problems showing involved steps.

---

## Additional Experiences and Certifications:

|S.No.|Name of Course/Conference|Offered by|Estimated period|Date of Completion|Certificate|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|Fusemachines Artificial Intelligence Scholarship Program|[Fusemachines](https://fusemachines.com/)|6 months|Nov 2018 - May 2019|
|2|AWS Innovate Online Conference - AI/ML Edition : Certificate of Attendance|[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)|5 hours|Feb 19, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1tIMKDhCth63rFkicrPAUu0vQA3Zudx4C)|
|3|[Multivariable calculus](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/multivariable-calculus)|[Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/)|20 hrs|Feb 24, 2020|
|4|[Statistics and Probability](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/statistics-probability)|[Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/)|20 hrs|Feb 27, 2020|
|5|[Pandas Foundation](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/pandas-foundations)|[DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/)|4 hours|March 14, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/course/cbfa5d9e55822bb0766ab866a4dde1c79e7509fa)|
|6|[Software Engineering for Data Scientists in Python](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/software-engineering-for-data-scientists-in-python)|[DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/)|4 hours|March 25, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/course/57f6c72aa989430f77a1b66c081dc40ca7cb8d03)|
|7|[Deep Learning Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/deep-learning-nanodegree--nd101)|[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)|4 months|April 22, 2020|[View Certificate](https://confirm.udacity.com/M7HJGNR3)|
|8|[Natural Language Processing Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/natural-language-processing-nanodegree--nd892)|[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)|3 months|May 7, 2020|[View Certificate](https://confirm.udacity.com/SKL4AQE3)|
|9|[Effective Client Communication Training](https://classroom.google.com/u/0/c/OTk0NTYxMDQ3ODBa)|[Fusemachines](https://fusemachines.com)|1 month|May 18, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pwjxW8upDaO6_YRbv8Z0g26uLtZkipLu/view?usp=sharing)|
|10|[Full Stack Web Development with Flask](http://www.linkedin.com/learning/full-stack-web-development-with-flask)|[Linkedin Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning)|5 hours|June 12, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1k-9cZ6Zp6wpVCeuantBlSHa4FNKUNWbF/view?usp=sharing)|
|11|[Python: Design Patterns](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-design-patterns/next-steps?autoplay=true)|[Linkedin Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning)|2 hours|June 14, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13eVXfETo4OkJzkFmeen-RzH9cSSOZXQA/view?usp=sharing)|
|12|[Computer Vision Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/computer-vision-nanodegree--nd891)|[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)|3 months|June 29, 2020|[View Certificate](https://confirm.udacity.com/GGYLDZPA)|
|13|[3rd National Workshop on Machine Learning and Data Science (NWMLDS) - Certificate of Participation](https://www.mldsn.org/agenda)|[Machine Learning and Data Science Community Nepal (MLDSN)](https://www.mldsn.org/)|5 days|Aug 6, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TfzEt8_fQXX2f5EGNuETUslmfk1C5Sgj/view?usp=sharing)|
|14|[Faster Python Code](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/faster-python-code)|[Linkedin Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning)|2 hours|Sept 25, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1irBSMbfj227TnGsWVk1xeRQSDRx67t8P/view?usp=sharing)|
|15|[Introduction to Bash Shell Scripting](https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-to-bash-shell-scripting)|[Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)|1 hour|Nov 4, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/5MDW2Q3ZV7D2)|
|16|[Automation Scripts Using Bash](https://www.coursera.org/projects/auto-scripts-bash)|[Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)|1 hour|Nov 4, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/59AMMXE6F9YR)|

---

## Technical Skills
 
---

- **Programming Languages**: Python, R, Matlab, C, C++, JAVA
- **Python Packages**: Pytorch, Tensorflow, Scikit-Learn, OpenCV, Nltk, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Fastapi, BeautifulSoup, Regex, NetworkX, Jupyter
- **Database**: MySQL, MongoDB
- **Miscellaneous**: Git, Github, Bash, LATEX, Jira, Linux, Arduino, Raspberry-pi

---

Commit message:

Add publications information and presentation

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

<!--
# Ayush Kumar Shah
 -->

<!--
Graduate Research Assisstant, <br>
[Rochester Institute of Technology](https://www.rit.edu), New York
 -->

I am a 3rd year Computer Science Ph.D. student at Rochester Institute of
Technology (RIT), conducting research under [Prof. Richard Zanibbi](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~rlaz/)
at the [Document and Pattern Recognition Lab (DPRL), RIT](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/index.html).
Currently, I am involved in the [MathSeer project](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/mathseer/),
which is a system to make finding mathematical information easier by creating innovative search
engines, interfaces, and algorithms for extracting and recognizing visual
structure like mathematical formulas and chemical diagrams in documents.

**Research Interests**: Pattern recognition, computer vision, detection and recognition of graphical structures, deep
learning, natural language processing

---

Get a PDF copy of my CV [here](/files/CV_AyushKumarShah_current.pdf)

---

## News

- (Aug 22-23, 2023): Gave a poster presentation talk 
    at Poster session 1 and doctoral consortium at
    the 17th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition,
    [ICDAR 2023](https://icdar2023.org/), San José, California.
 
- (Apr 17, 2023): Gave a **Research Idea Ring (RIR) talk** on “Line-of-sight with Graph Attention Parser 
    (LGAP) for Math Formulas” at RIT.

- (Apr 2023): Our [paper](https://shahayush.com/publication/2023-04-30-lgap) 
    on the Line-of-sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas
    accepted for publication at 
    the 17th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition,
    [ICDAR 2023](https://icdar2023.org/), San José, California.

- (Sept 27-28, 2022): Co-presented a poster on "Reconstructing the Structure of Molecular Diagrams in PDF Documents 
using a CNN-Attention-Based Parsing Model" at the **Molecule Maker Lab Institute (MMLI) All-Institute Retreat at
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC)**.

- (Sep 5, 2021): Gave a guest lecture on “Bayesian Decision Theory” for RIT’s undergraduate course - 
    Intro to Machine Learning (40 students).

- (Aug 28, 2022): Successfully completed **Applied Scientist Intern** at Amazon (Alexa AI). Started as
**Graduate Teaching Assisstant (GTA)** for the undergraduate course CSCI-335 Machine Learning.

- (May 23, 2022): Started as **Applied Scientist Intern** at Amazon (Alexa AI). 
   Worked on the Alexa Perceptual Technologies - Speaker Understanding team
   to improve speaker identification in Alexa devices.
 
- (Apr 7, 2022): Gave a **Research Idea Ring (RIR) talk** on “A Fast and Interpretable 
    Context-aware Parser for Isolated Formulas and Chemical Diagrams” at RIT.

- (Sep 9, 2021): Gave a poster presentation talk on the 
    MathSeer extraction pipeline at 
    the 16th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition,
    [ICDAR 2021](https://icdar2021.org/), 
    Lausanne, Switzerland virtually.
 
- (Sep 2021): MathSeer extraction pipeline released. This tool extracts formula
  locations and content in PDF documents. The pipeline is available from
  [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/dprl/MathSeer-extraction-pipeline), and includes 
  improved versions of SymbolScraper, ScanSSD (now,
  ScanSSD-XYc), and QD-GGA. The pipeline was prepared by **Ayush K. Shah**,
  Abhisek Dey, Matt Langsenkamp, and Prof. Zanibbi.

- (Apr 2021): Our [paper](https://shahayush.com/publication/2021-09-01-mathseer-pipeline) 
    on the MathSeer formula extraction and evaluation pipeline accepted for publication at
    the 16th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition, 
  [ICDAR 2021](https://icdar2021.org/), Lausanne, Switzerland.

- (May 2021): Successfully defended and passed my Ph.D. Research Potential Assessment (RPA).

- (Aug 2020): Joined Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) for Ph.D. in Computing and Information Sciences.
    Started as **Graduate Research Assisstant (GRA)**  at the [Document and
    Pattern Recognition Lab (DPRL)](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/) under [Prof.
    Richard Zanibbi](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~rlaz/).

- (Jan 2020): Promoted to Machine Learning Engineer Level 1 at Fusemachines
    Nepal.

- (Aug 2019): Promoted to Machine Learning Engineer Associate at Fusemachines
    Nepal.

- (Aug 2019): Graduated from Kathmandu University as a Computer Engineer.

- (Jun 2019): Started working as a Machine Learning Engineer Trainee at
    Fusemachines Nepal.

## Education

---

### PhD, Computing and Information Sciences

2020-Present

Rochester Institute of Technology, <br> 
Rochester, New York

---

### BE, Computer Engineering

2015-2019

Kathmandu University, <br> 
Dhulikhel, Nepal

CGPA: 3.96 / 4.0

**Coursework:** Machine Learning; Artificial Intelligence; Natural Language Processing; Data Structure and Algorithms;
Database Management Systems; Operating Systems; Advanced Calculus and Linear Algebra; C; C++; Computer Architecture;
Software Engineering; Digital Signal Processing; Embedded Systems

---

## Work Experience

---
### Applied Scientist Intern

May 23, 2022 - Aug 26, 2022

Amazon - Alexa AI <br>
Sunnyvale, California
 
Reduced annotation costs and training time, with competitive speaker
identification results in voice assistants (e.g., Alexa) using semi-supervised
techniques (Alexa Speaker Understanding team).

### Graduate Research Assisstant

Aug 18, 2020 - Present 

Rochester Institute of Technology, <br> 
Rochester, New York

One of the members of the [MathSeer Project,](https://www.cs.rit.edu/~dprl/mathseer/) which 
is a system to make finding mathematical information easier. 
I am conducting research under Prof. Richard Zanibbi to create innovative search
engines, interfaces, and algorithms for extracting and recognizing math.

---

### Machine Learning Engineer

June 17, 2019 - Aug 31, 2020

Fusemachines Nepal, <br> 
Aarya Tower Bhawan, Hattisar, Nepal

- Worked on the ML pipeline: data cleaning and pre-processing, model building, tuning hyperparameters, model
training, and model evaluation in NLP and Computer Vision domain.

- Developed a product classifier using chemical attributes to optimize business decisions for products that go unsold
using boosting algorithms including Gradient Boosting, Random Forests, XGBoost, LightGBM.

- Built an intelligent character recognition system using CNN and RNN to predict handwritten texts (both English
and Nepali) in manually-filled form fields with an accuracy of 95%. 

- Analysed data provided by a subscription-based e-commerce client for building a recommendation system, which
led to an increase in revenue through cross-selling by 6% (large as we were serving 600k users).

- Designed, reviewed, and refined reading materials, quizzes, assignments, and projects for [Fusemachines AI Education Programs](https://fusemachines.com/ai-education/for-engineers/) - “Foundations in AI: Mathematics for AI” (linear algebra, calculus, probability and statistics,
etc.), “Micro Degree™ in Artificial Intelligence: Machine Learning, Computer Vision” (regresssion, image processing, feature detection, image classification, object recognition, etc.)

---

### Computer Science Instructor

Jan 2020 - June 2020

Samriddhi College, <br> 
Kathmandu, Nepal

Designed and implemented daily lesson plans and coding sessions for the course [“Foundations in AI: Computer
Science and Mathematics”](https://fusemachines.com/ai-education/for-engineers/) to undergraduate BSc.CSIT students. 
The course topics include: Introduction to AI,
Fundamentals of CS, Python Programming, Data Structure, Database Management System.

---

## Technical Experience

---

### Projects

- [Nepali Plagiarism Detector (NLP)](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/Nepali_Plagiarism_Detection)<br>
An application that detects plagiarised Devanagari text files using a self-built rule-based stemming algorithm and
Cosine similarity

- [Guitar chord recognizer](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/Guitar-Chords-recognition)<br>
An application that predicts the chords when the Mel spectrograms of guitar sound are fed into a CNN.

- [AI Plays GTA 5: Simulating self-driving vehicles](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/AI-Plays-GTA5)<br>
A bike-riding agent in a virtual environment (GTA5), built using CNN, used for simulating self-driving vehicles.
 
- [Sarangi: Nepali lyrics emotions extraction (NLP)](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/sarangi)<br>
A framework that categorizes songs written in the Devanagari script into four emotions using Naive Bayes.

- [Autocar](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/autocar/)<br>
  A self-driving car that can detect lanes, stop sign, traffic light and avoid a collision, built using Canny edge
detection, Hough transform, Haar cascade classifier, and Arduino programming.
 
- [MathMate – advanced mathematical calculator](https://github.com/ayushkumarshah/MathMate)<br>
An android app that solves different types of mathematical equations, numerical computations, and calculus
problems showing involved steps.

---

## Additional Experiences and Certifications:

|S.No.|Name of Course/Conference|Offered by|Estimated period|Date of Completion|Certificate|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|Fusemachines Artificial Intelligence Scholarship Program|[Fusemachines](https://fusemachines.com/)|6 months|Nov 2018 - May 2019|
|2|AWS Innovate Online Conference - AI/ML Edition : Certificate of Attendance|[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)|5 hours|Feb 19, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1tIMKDhCth63rFkicrPAUu0vQA3Zudx4C)|
|3|[Multivariable calculus](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/multivariable-calculus)|[Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/)|20 hrs|Feb 24, 2020|
|4|[Statistics and Probability](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/statistics-probability)|[Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/)|20 hrs|Feb 27, 2020|
|5|[Pandas Foundation](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/pandas-foundations)|[DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/)|4 hours|March 14, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/course/cbfa5d9e55822bb0766ab866a4dde1c79e7509fa)|
|6|[Software Engineering for Data Scientists in Python](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/software-engineering-for-data-scientists-in-python)|[DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/)|4 hours|March 25, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/course/57f6c72aa989430f77a1b66c081dc40ca7cb8d03)|
|7|[Deep Learning Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/deep-learning-nanodegree--nd101)|[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)|4 months|April 22, 2020|[View Certificate](https://confirm.udacity.com/M7HJGNR3)|
|8|[Natural Language Processing Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/natural-language-processing-nanodegree--nd892)|[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)|3 months|May 7, 2020|[View Certificate](https://confirm.udacity.com/SKL4AQE3)|
|9|[Effective Client Communication Training](https://classroom.google.com/u/0/c/OTk0NTYxMDQ3ODBa)|[Fusemachines](https://fusemachines.com)|1 month|May 18, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pwjxW8upDaO6_YRbv8Z0g26uLtZkipLu/view?usp=sharing)|
|10|[Full Stack Web Development with Flask](http://www.linkedin.com/learning/full-stack-web-development-with-flask)|[Linkedin Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning)|5 hours|June 12, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1k-9cZ6Zp6wpVCeuantBlSHa4FNKUNWbF/view?usp=sharing)|
|11|[Python: Design Patterns](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-design-patterns/next-steps?autoplay=true)|[Linkedin Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning)|2 hours|June 14, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13eVXfETo4OkJzkFmeen-RzH9cSSOZXQA/view?usp=sharing)|
|12|[Computer Vision Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/computer-vision-nanodegree--nd891)|[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)|3 months|June 29, 2020|[View Certificate](https://confirm.udacity.com/GGYLDZPA)|
|13|[3rd National Workshop on Machine Learning and Data Science (NWMLDS) - Certificate of Participation](https://www.mldsn.org/agenda)|[Machine Learning and Data Science Community Nepal (MLDSN)](https://www.mldsn.org/)|5 days|Aug 6, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TfzEt8_fQXX2f5EGNuETUslmfk1C5Sgj/view?usp=sharing)|
|14|[Faster Python Code](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/faster-python-code)|[Linkedin Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning)|2 hours|Sept 25, 2020|[View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1irBSMbfj227TnGsWVk1xeRQSDRx67t8P/view?usp=sharing)|
|15|[Introduction to Bash Shell Scripting](https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-to-bash-shell-scripting)|[Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)|1 hour|Nov 4, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/5MDW2Q3ZV7D2)|
|16|[Automation Scripts Using Bash](https://www.coursera.org/projects/auto-scripts-bash)|[Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)|1 hour|Nov 4, 2020|[View Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/59AMMXE6F9YR)|

---

## Technical Skills
 
---

- **Programming Languages**: Python, R, Matlab, C, C++, JAVA
- **Python Packages**: Pytorch, Tensorflow, Scikit-Learn, OpenCV, Nltk, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Fastapi, BeautifulSoup, Regex, NetworkX, Jupyter
- **Database**: MySQL, MongoDB
- **Miscellaneous**: Git, Github, Bash, LATEX, Jira, Linux, Arduino, Raspberry-pi

---
