_publications/2023-04-30-lgap.md, before:

---
title: "Line-of-sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2023-04-30-lgap
excerpt: 'This paper is about a new visual parsing model for math formulas.'
date: 2023-04-30
venue: 'International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR)'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-41734-4_25'
pdf: '/files/Shah2023_LGAP.pdf'
citation: 'A. K. Shah and R. Zanibbi, “Line-of-Sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas,” in Document Analysis and Recognition - ICDAR 2023, G. A. Fink, R. Jain, K. Kise, and R. Zanibbi, Eds., in Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2023, pp. 401–419. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-41734-4_25.'
poster: '/files/ICDAR2023.pdf'
video: '/files/P1.17-teaser.mov'
code: 'https://gitlab.com/dprl/qdgga-parser'
published: 'True'
---

## Abstract:

Recently there have been notable advancements in encoder-decoder models for 
parsing the visual appearance of mathematical formulas. These approaches
transform input formula images or handwritten stroke sequences into output 
strings (e.g., LaTeX) representing recognized symbols and their spatial
arrangement on writing lines (i.e., a Symbol Layout Tree (SLT)). These
sequential encoder-decoder models
produce state-of-the-art results but suffer from a lack of
interpretability: there is no direct mapping between image regions or handwritten strokes 
and detected
symbols and relationships. In this paper, we present the Line-of-sight with 
Graph Attention Parser (LGAP), a visual parsing model that treats recognizing
formula appearance as a graph search
problem. LGAP produces an output SLT from a Maximum  Spanning Tree (MST) over
input primitives (e.g., connected components in images, or handwritten strokes).
LGAP improves the earlier QD-GGA MST-based parser by
representing punctuation relationships more consistently 
in ground truth,  using additional context from line-of-sight graph
neighbors in visual features, and pooling convolutional features using spatial
pyramidal pooling rather than single-region average pooling. These changes
improve accuracy while preserving the interpretibility of MST-based visual
parsing.

<iframe src="/files/ICDAR2023.pdf" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>

<br>

<iframe src="/files/Shah2023_LGAP.pdf" width="100%" height="800" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>


<br>
**.bib:**

```bib
@InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-031-41734-4_25,
author="Shah, Ayush Kumar and Zanibbi, Richard",                      
editor="Fink, Gernot A. and Jain, Rajiv and Kise, Koichi and Zanibbi, Richard",                      
title="Line-of-Sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas",
booktitle="Document Analysis and Recognition - ICDAR 2023",
year="2023",                                
publisher="Springer Nature Switzerland",    
address="Cham",                             
pages="401--419",                           
isbn="978-3-031-41734-4"
}
```


<!-- @InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-030-86331-9_2,\\ -->
<!-- author="**Shah, Ayush Kumar** and Dey, Abhisek and Zanibbi, Richard",\\ -->
<!-- editor="Llad{\'o}s, Josep and Lopresti, Daniel and Uchida, Seiichi",\\ -->
<!-- title="A Math Formula Extraction and Evaluation Framework for PDF Documents",\\ -->
<!-- booktitle="Document Analysis and Recognition -- ICDAR 2021",                 \\ -->
<!-- year="2021",                                                                 \\ -->
<!-- publisher="Springer International Publishing",                               \\ -->
<!-- address="Cham",                                                              \\ -->
<!-- pages="19--34",                                                              \\ -->
<!-- isbn="978-3-030-86331-9"                                                     \\ -->
<!-- } -->

<!-- {% include iframe_holder.html url="/files/P1.17-teaser.mov" width="560" height="325" %} -->

Commit message:

Update excerpts of the paper

_publications/2023-04-30-lgap.md, after:

---
title: "Line-of-sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2023-04-30-lgap
excerpt: 'The Line-of-Sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) is a graph-based approach to recognizing mathematical notation. It improves interpretability over encoder-decoder models while enhancing accuracy through context-aware graph pooling.'
date: 2023-04-30
venue: 'International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR)'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-41734-4_25'
pdf: '/files/Shah2023_LGAP.pdf'
citation: 'A. K. Shah and R. Zanibbi, “Line-of-Sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas,” in Document Analysis and Recognition - ICDAR 2023, G. A. Fink, R. Jain, K. Kise, and R. Zanibbi, Eds., in Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2023, pp. 401–419. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-41734-4_25.'
poster: '/files/ICDAR2023.pdf'
video: '/files/P1.17-teaser.mov'
code: 'https://gitlab.com/dprl/qdgga-parser'
published: 'True'
---

## Abstract:

Recently there have been notable advancements in encoder-decoder models for 
parsing the visual appearance of mathematical formulas. These approaches
transform input formula images or handwritten stroke sequences into output 
strings (e.g., LaTeX) representing recognized symbols and their spatial
arrangement on writing lines (i.e., a Symbol Layout Tree (SLT)). These
sequential encoder-decoder models
produce state-of-the-art results but suffer from a lack of
interpretability: there is no direct mapping between image regions or handwritten strokes 
and detected
symbols and relationships. In this paper, we present the Line-of-sight with 
Graph Attention Parser (LGAP), a visual parsing model that treats recognizing
formula appearance as a graph search
problem. LGAP produces an output SLT from a Maximum  Spanning Tree (MST) over
input primitives (e.g., connected components in images, or handwritten strokes).
LGAP improves the earlier QD-GGA MST-based parser by
representing punctuation relationships more consistently 
in ground truth,  using additional context from line-of-sight graph
neighbors in visual features, and pooling convolutional features using spatial
pyramidal pooling rather than single-region average pooling. These changes
improve accuracy while preserving the interpretibility of MST-based visual
parsing.

<iframe src="/files/ICDAR2023.pdf" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>

<br>

<iframe src="/files/Shah2023_LGAP.pdf" width="100%" height="800" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>


<br>
**.bib:**

```bib
@InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-031-41734-4_25,
author="Shah, Ayush Kumar and Zanibbi, Richard",                      
editor="Fink, Gernot A. and Jain, Rajiv and Kise, Koichi and Zanibbi, Richard",                      
title="Line-of-Sight with Graph Attention Parser (LGAP) for Math Formulas",
booktitle="Document Analysis and Recognition - ICDAR 2023",
year="2023",                                
publisher="Springer Nature Switzerland",    
address="Cham",                             
pages="401--419",                           
isbn="978-3-031-41734-4"
}
```


<!-- @InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-030-86331-9_2,\\ -->
<!-- author="**Shah, Ayush Kumar** and Dey, Abhisek and Zanibbi, Richard",\\ -->
<!-- editor="Llad{\'o}s, Josep and Lopresti, Daniel and Uchida, Seiichi",\\ -->
<!-- title="A Math Formula Extraction and Evaluation Framework for PDF Documents",\\ -->
<!-- booktitle="Document Analysis and Recognition -- ICDAR 2021",                 \\ -->
<!-- year="2021",                                                                 \\ -->
<!-- publisher="Springer International Publishing",                               \\ -->
<!-- address="Cham",                                                              \\ -->
<!-- pages="19--34",                                                              \\ -->
<!-- isbn="978-3-030-86331-9"                                                     \\ -->
<!-- } -->

<!-- {% include iframe_holder.html url="/files/P1.17-teaser.mov" width="560" height="325" %} -->
