_publications/2023-04-26-search.md, before:

---
title: "Searching the ACL Anthology with Math Formulas and Text"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2023-04-26-search
excerpt: 'This paper is about searching the ACL Anthology with math formulas and text.'
date: 2023-04-26
venue: 'International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3539618.3591803'
pdf: '/files/Amador2023_Search.pdf'
citation: 'B. Amador, M. Langsenkamp, A. Dey, A. K. Shah, and R. Zanibbi, “Searching the ACL Anthology with Math Formulas and Text,” in Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, in SIGIR ’23. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, Jul. 2023, pp. 3110–3114. doi: 10.1145/3539618.3591803.'
poster: '/files/MathDeck-poster.pdf'
code: 'https://gitlab.com/dprl/mathdeck'
demo: 'https://demo.mathdeck.org/'
video: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SYkEIft9_WI&ab_channel=BryanAmador'
published: 'True'
---

## Abstract:
Mathematical notation is a key analytical resource for science and technology. 
Unfortunately, 
current math-aware search engines require LaTeX  or template palettes to
construct formulas, which can be challenging for non-experts. Also, their
indexed collections are primarily web pages where formulas are represented
explicitly in machine-readable formats (e.g., LaTeX, Presentation MathML). 
The new MathDeck system searches
PDF documents in a portion of the ACL Anthology using both formulas and text,
and shows matched words and formulas along with other extracted formulas
in-context.  In
PDF, formulas are not demarcated: a new indexing module extracts  formulas
using PDF vector graphics information and computer vision techniques.
For non-expert users and visual editing, a central design feature of
MathDeck's interface is formula 'chips' usable in formula creation, search,
reuse, and annotation with titles and descriptions in cards. For experts,
LaTeX is supported in the text query box and the visual formula editor.
MathDeck is open-source, and our demo is available online.

<iframe src="/files/MathDeck-poster.pdf" width="100%" height="500" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>

<br>

<iframe src="/files/Amador2023_Search.pdf" width="100%" height="800" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>

<br>
**.bib:**

```bib
@inproceedings{10.1145/3539618.3591803,
author = {Amador, Bryan and Langsenkamp, Matt and Dey, Abhisek and Shah, Ayush Kumar and Zanibbi, Richard},
title = {Searching the ACL Anthology with Math Formulas and Text},                                         
year = {2023},                                                                                             
isbn = {9781450394086},                                                                                    
publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},                                                         
address = {New York, NY, USA},                                                                             
url = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3539618.3591803},                                                           
doi = {10.1145/3539618.3591803},                                                                           
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval},
pages = {3110–3114},                                                                                       
numpages = {5},                                                                                            
keywords = {mathematical information retrieval (mir), multimodal retrieval, latex, pdf, math-aware search},
location = {Taipei, Taiwan},                                                                               
series = {SIGIR '23}
}
```

<!-- {% include iframe_holder.html url="/files/237-teaser.mp4" width="560" height="325" %} -->

Commit message:

Update excerpts of the paper

_publications/2023-04-26-search.md, after:

---
title: "Searching the ACL Anthology with Math Formulas and Text"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2023-04-26-search
excerpt: 'MathDeck enables math formula search in the ACL Anthology PDF collection, integrating text and formula-based queries. The system introduces formula "chips" for intuitive formula creation, reuse, and annotation.'
date: 2023-04-26
venue: 'International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3539618.3591803'
pdf: '/files/Amador2023_Search.pdf'
citation: 'B. Amador, M. Langsenkamp, A. Dey, A. K. Shah, and R. Zanibbi, “Searching the ACL Anthology with Math Formulas and Text,” in Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, in SIGIR ’23. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, Jul. 2023, pp. 3110–3114. doi: 10.1145/3539618.3591803.'
poster: '/files/MathDeck-poster.pdf'
code: 'https://gitlab.com/dprl/mathdeck'
demo: 'https://demo.mathdeck.org/'
video: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SYkEIft9_WI&ab_channel=BryanAmador'
published: 'True'
---

## Abstract:
Mathematical notation is a key analytical resource for science and technology. 
Unfortunately, 
current math-aware search engines require LaTeX  or template palettes to
construct formulas, which can be challenging for non-experts. Also, their
indexed collections are primarily web pages where formulas are represented
explicitly in machine-readable formats (e.g., LaTeX, Presentation MathML). 
The new MathDeck system searches
PDF documents in a portion of the ACL Anthology using both formulas and text,
and shows matched words and formulas along with other extracted formulas
in-context.  In
PDF, formulas are not demarcated: a new indexing module extracts  formulas
using PDF vector graphics information and computer vision techniques.
For non-expert users and visual editing, a central design feature of
MathDeck's interface is formula 'chips' usable in formula creation, search,
reuse, and annotation with titles and descriptions in cards. For experts,
LaTeX is supported in the text query box and the visual formula editor.
MathDeck is open-source, and our demo is available online.

<iframe src="/files/MathDeck-poster.pdf" width="100%" height="500" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>

<br>

<iframe src="/files/Amador2023_Search.pdf" width="100%" height="800" frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"></iframe>

<br>
**.bib:**

```bib
@inproceedings{10.1145/3539618.3591803,
author = {Amador, Bryan and Langsenkamp, Matt and Dey, Abhisek and Shah, Ayush Kumar and Zanibbi, Richard},
title = {Searching the ACL Anthology with Math Formulas and Text},                                         
year = {2023},                                                                                             
isbn = {9781450394086},                                                                                    
publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},                                                         
address = {New York, NY, USA},                                                                             
url = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3539618.3591803},                                                           
doi = {10.1145/3539618.3591803},                                                                           
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval},
pages = {3110–3114},                                                                                       
numpages = {5},                                                                                            
keywords = {mathematical information retrieval (mir), multimodal retrieval, latex, pdf, math-aware search},
location = {Taipei, Taiwan},                                                                               
series = {SIGIR '23}
}
```

<!-- {% include iframe_holder.html url="/files/237-teaser.mp4" width="560" height="325" %} -->
